[super cool music like "Damn this is some stylish sh*t"]
- I am "The Portrait of Madame
X" by John Singer Sargent.
I was first exhibited in 1884,
and I caused quite a stir in Paris
because although my artist intended for me
to be a study in light and
shade, audiences and critics
thought I was trying to
be sexually provocative.
So, which is it?
What does the artwork mean?
Now, you might be sitting
there thinking, "Well,
it's subjective, there's
no right or wrong answer!"
but I am willing to bet that
you don't really believe that.
There's a big difference
between saying that the quality
of an artwork is subjective
and the meaning is subjective.
If you don't like The
Portrait of Madame X"
then fair enough, I guess
I'm not to everyone's taste.
And I suppose when I pose for it,
it's more like "The Portrait of Madame XY,"
but is it really the case
that I can be about anything?
If somebody says to you, I
just saw "Doctor Strange 2".
And you go, "Oh yeah, what's it about?"
And they say, "It's about how
love has an everlasting value,
even between two people of
different social classes
on a doomed ocean liner."
You'd be like, "No, that's Titanic."
It definitely seems like you
can look at a work of art,
think you know what
it's about and be wrong,
which means the meaning at
least is not subjective.
So assuming artworks do
have objective meaning,
how do we find out what the meaning is?
If I don't get it, how do I get it?
[Cool music like "Oh damn good point I'll stick around and watch the rest of the video to see the pretty lady explain it!]
If you enjoy today's episode
and you wanna help me
make more free educational material,
consider signing up at
patreon.com/philosophytube.
I'm pledging a couple of dollars a month
to keep the show going.
These paintings are some
of the most famous examples
of modern art in the world.
And I have absolutely
no idea what they mean.
[gentle music like "Hmm yes the art here is made of art"]
They're called the Seagram murals.
They were painted in the 1950s
by American artist Mark Rothko.
Originally, he was
commissioned to make them
for an upscale restaurant in New York.
But when he actually visited the place
he changed his mind and
gave the money back.
The paintings are still displayed
in accordance with his intentions:
close to the ground in a small room,
with off-white walls
in low, even lighting.
Rothko said he wanted
audiences to feel trapped.
If I want to get it, maybe
those facts are a clue.
If somebody tells me Rothko's paintings
are about being happy and
having a nice time at the beach,
I can point to his intentions
and go, no, you're wrong!
'Cause I don't wanna get it wrong.
I don't wanna misinterpret something,
that could be really awkward.
Like when your friend who
you thought was straight
sends you a bunch of flirty
messages and you're like, "Babe,
is there something you need to tell me?"
And she goes, "What?!
No, I'm definitely straight,
definitely interested in... men.
Everybody sends messages like that, right?"
[Leezy's "Girls Like You" plays]
Some philosophers have said
that the meaning of an
artwork is part of it
albeit not a part that
you can see with your eyes.
Take for instance, "Fountain",
one of the most famous works of art ever.
It was presented in 1917 by Marcel Duchamp
and it's what's called a readymade,
a sculpture that was already made
because it's just an ordinary urinal.
He bought it from a shop.
To the eyes, "Fountain" is identical
to other urinals that are not art.
So, the argument goes,
what makes it different is its meaning.
If you don't get that
meaning, you have in a sense
failed to experience the
artwork that is "Fountain".
You've just seen a urinal.
Funnily enough, I have
some artwork with me today
that is about this very
question. (Interpreting art,
not whether your friend
is flirting with you.)
Although actually kind of both!
This is "Pale Fire" by Vladimir Nabokov.
One of the most famous
novels of the 20th century.
The story is that the poet,
John Shade, has been murdered
on the night that he
completed his greatest work.
So the poem has been
published posthumously
by his good friend, Charles,
with notes explaining its meaning.
But as we read on, Charles'
notes get weirder and weirder.
He starts claiming that
certain words in the poem
are really a coded message
about how John was in love with him
but his wife wouldn't let him say it,
and really, the poem is all about Charles,
until he's talking about things
that are completely unconnected
and we're like, "Hang on a
minute... did he murder John?!"
A lot of the humour comes from the fact
that Charles' interpretation
of the poem is wrong.
He says it's about one thing, it obviously isn't,
and that's why it's funny,
but how do we know he's wrong?
Well, it would be very helpful if we could just ask John
what his poem is about.
And indeed, some philosophers have said,
the way you find out an artwork's meaning
is you look at the artist's intention.
If it seems like your
friend is flirting with you
but it's kind of ambiguous,
just ask her how she feels!
But it doesn't really
help us with "Pale Fire"
because the whole setup
is that John Shade has been murdered.
We don't know what he intended.
Maybe Charles is right and
the poem really is about him.
And this problem comes
up a lot in art history.
We have evidence of what
artists like Rothko and Duchamp
intended for their works, but
often that isn't the case,
especially if the art is very old.
And even if we could go back
and reconstruct an artist's intention,
it might not be a very secure foundation
on which to base an
interpretation of their work.
The French philosopher Michel Foucault
pointed out that the author of a text
is sometimes a bit of a vague
construct, even a brand.
Basically, our reconstruction
would kindof be an
interpretation as well.
As Charles shows us,
it's perfectly possible
to imagine an idea of
somebody in your head
who supports your
interpretation of their work,
but who isn't that
close to the real thing.
Maybe your friend is flirting with you,
but maybe you're just projecting
because secretly, you kindof want her to.
[Leezy's "Girls Like You" plays]
[Also, Leezy, I emailed your management about licensing this track and they never replied??? I think technically I don't have to cause it's only 10s but I wanted to anyway cause I like your music - get in touch and let me pay you!]
The risk is that we just end
up repeating what other people
have told us about the
artists' intentions,
regurgitating the marketing
rather than actually engaging
with what they've made.
That's why the philosopher
Roland Barthes said
we should forget about the author
and just focus on the text
In his famous essay, "Death
of the Author", which yeah,
John is dead, so I guess you
got what you wanted there.
Roland Barthes, where were you
on the night that John Shade was murdered?
Just to make things even more hazy,
the British artist
historian Michael Baxandall
said that artists don't really have
intentions for their work the
same way that an architect
has an intention for a bridge.
When you design a bridge,
you plan it all out beforehand
and you have a very clear goal in mind,
but art doesn't really work that way.
Every brushstroke you add to a canvas,
every line to a script,
every note to a score,
changes the relationships
between everything else
and changes the whole.
As you work, your intention develops.
So if we're trying to reconstruct
the artist's intention,
where do we start?
There isn't really one intention.
There's an infinite sequence of them.
John Singer Sergeant
took almost a whole year
to finish "The Portrait of Madame X,"
and he tried a lot of different poses
before he settled on the final thing.
Rothko took years to
finish the Seagram murals
and he changed his mind
about what he wanted to do with them.
As somebody who is a working artist,
I can tell you from experience
that intentions absolutely change.
I recently finished writing a play.
It's gonna be on in London
soon. It's called "The Prince".
I'm really, really excited for it!
Tickets available in the doobleydoo
if you're interested!
When I started it I
intended to write something
about the monarchy, but the more I worked
the more I realised it actually needed
to be about something
completely different,
and the final product has
almost nothing to do with that.
So if we try to reconstruct
my original intention
to decide what the play is
about, how is that gonna work?
It definitely seems like
you can be wrong about art,
but I'm still not clear
on how you can make sure you're right.
I am "The Portrait of Madame
X" by John Singer Sergeant,
am I a study in light and shade?
Or am I a sexual scandal?
[Multiple voices] I have suggestion!
Maybe you need a
different angle on things!
[upbeat music like "Whoa cool we're changing it up, sick!"]
I am Pablo Picasso's paintings,
all of them, viewed at the same time
from different angles!
'Cause that's cubism baby!
Some people think that I
am the greatest artworks
of the 20th century.
A lot of people look at me
and they go, "I don't get it."
And my suggestion is, don't focus too much
on the intellectual stuff,
or you might miss out
on what the art really has to offer!
The philosopher Susan Sontag
says we should stop
trying to interpret art,
stop trying to get it
and just experience it.
Like Duchamp's "Fountain".
Everybody says, "Oh,
he's making a statement
about the art world!" and
Picasso's paintings,
everyone says, "Oh, he's
asking the big questions,
like... what if there was a
really f*****d up looking woman?"
But art isn't a statement or a question.
If it was, the artist
would just write it down.
Art isn't philosophy
with pictures, it's art!
So turn off Brain and tune in
to the aesthetic experience!
I sometimes feel a little
bit like that with my videos.
Sometimes people comment and they're like,
"Can you just make a list
of all your major points
and read them out without
all of the extra stuff?"
And I'm like...  "No."
[giggles]
Sometimes art is supposed to be difficult to get.
For example, I have another novel here::
"What It Feels Like For
a Girl" by Paris Lees.
Full disclosure, Paris is
one of my best friends,
but I liked her novel before we met.
It's about a kid called Byron
who grows up on a council estate
in the Midlands and has
a really rough time.
And the whole thing is written
in the dialect of that region.
If you're not from
that specific geographic
and socioeconomic place,
it is sometimes hard to interpret.
And that's a good thing because,
spoilers, Byron is trans,
which is also never explained.
There's never a scene where
like a doctor turns up
and explains to the audience
what trans people are
and confirms that Byron is one.
The reader's struggle
to interpret the text
parallels Byron's own
struggle to just live,
free of the interpretations
other people push on them.
The challenge to the reader
is, even if you don't 100%
understand this person, can
you still feel for them?
So in a way, if you 100% got it,
you'd almost be missing out!
"Interpretation is the revenge
of the intellect upon art.
Even more, it is the revenge
of the intellect upon the world.
To interpret is to impoverish,
to deplete the world in order to set up
a shadow world of meanings.
Real art has the capacity
to make us nervous.
Interpretation makes art
manageable, conformable."
I think we can really get
to grips with this idea
by looking at the work of
modern American playwright
David Mamet, who is a little bit of a problematic fave of mine.
In 2009, Mamet wrote a play called "Race".
The story is, content
warning, a wealthy white man
has been accused of raping
a young black woman.
The whole thing is set in the offices
of his defence lawyers,
as they try to invent
some way of getting him off the hook.
The witnesses say that
they heard sex noises
and racial slurs being shouted.
So the defense they concoct
is that she was into that.
The whole thing was actually consensual
and she's just lying to get his money.
The slimiest possible thing!
But as the play goes on,
it starts to emerge
that maybe that really
is what's happening.
Maybe there really is some
kind of reverse racism,
reverse Me Too thing happening here.
And Mamet loves to write
these kinds of stories.
He did another play called "Oleanna",
which is about a female
student who falsely accuses
her professor of sexually assaulting her.
But then... he really does!
He loves to write these Tim
Pool-ass thought experiments.
If you tried to take "Race"
and translate it into
a political statement,
the statement that you get
would probably be a little bit incoherent.
And I'm not just saying that
because I personally disagree
with Mamet's politics.
In his book "Theater",
he occasionally talks
about his political views
and it contradicts itself
from chapter to chapter.
The stuff about theatre
is really interesting.
The stuff about politics kind of reads
a little bit like discount
Jordan Peterson, and fair enough!
Man's a playwright, not
a political scientist!
But I saw "Race" on Broadway in 2010
and it was electric.
The performance was so good
that when I came out of the
theater, I was like, "That's it,
I have to be an actress." And years later,
I did a monologue from "Race"
at my drama school
auditions, and I got in.
Mamet says that if you are writing a play,
creating a work of art for the
stage, forget about politics,
forget about interpretations
and meaning and getting it
and all of that [jackoff noises]
Is it entertaining?
Do the audience wanna
know what happens next?
If you're singing in
front of a work of art
and you're trying to get
it, then you're a fool.
The play, the story, that's
the thing that we're here for.
As somebody who's just
finished writing a play
and is going to be in it
soon, there have been times
where I've found that to
be really useful advice.
In fairness, I'm white,
so when I watch "Race,"
I can turn off the bit of my brain
that worries about the politics stuff.
Maybe someday David
Mamet will write a play
about trans people and
I won't have the luxury
of being entertained anymore,
but for now, let's take
this idea and run with it.
Forget about trying to interpret the art.
Just... how do you feel?
When I look at Rothko, I feel... uh...
It's big, it's black, it's maroon, it's red.
It's, uh...
I feel humbled.
I feel in awe, I feel sad.
You know that feeling
where something bad happens,
but you kind of knew it was going to,
like when somebody tells you
they don't love you anymore
and you kind of saw it coming,
or you're at a funeral
and the person's died,
but they've been ill
for a really long time.
And it's like, well, it's sad,
but at least it's done now.
That's kind of how Rothko makes me feel.
Or at least that is part of it.
But there might be a
bit of a problem here.
Truth be told, whenever
I'm in an art gallery,
I always feel low key anxious
because I used to date an art historian.
And we would sometimes
go to galleries together.
We're talking ancient history
now, years and years ago,
but that relationship ended pretty badly
for reasons that were my fault.
So now whenever I'm in an art gallery,
I'm always like, "What if she's here?"
[Kim Petras' "Reminds Me" plays]
My point is, people
feel all sorts of things
when they look at art.
Sometimes I look at Rothko and
I feel anxious about my ex.
Sometimes I look at Rothko
and I feel like suddenly I have to pee.
So which feelings are the right ones?
Even if I'm just focusing
on my emotional reactions,
how do I know that I've got it?
We can probably narrow
it down a little bit.
Like we could say that your
feelings should be caused
by the particular artwork
you're looking at.
Yes, I might look at Rothko
and feel anxious about my ex,
but that's not caused by Rothko.
Any painting in any gallery would do that.
I might look at it and feel
that I have to pee, but again,
that's not caused by the
Rothko, that's just coincidence.
But even then, that might not be enough.
Whenever I look at the Seagram murals,
I think about "Spider-Man 2."
The story of how Rothko made
them was adapted into a play
called "Red", which starred Alfred Molina,
who played Dr. Octopus
in "Spider-Man 2".
I really liked Alfred
Molina's performance in "Red".
So now whenever I look at
those particular paintings,
there's a part of me that feels happy, 'cause I'm like,
"Oh yeah... Alfred Molina!"
- There's a huge amount of input
and a whole new vibe really.
- My feelings are caused
by that specific painting
and they don't seem
relevant to its meaning,
but then we are right
back where we started!
It really seems like the
artwork has a correct meaning
that determines whether or not I get it.
And you might be like, "Well,
okay, but what did Rothko feel?"
He probably wasn't feeling
anything to do with Alfred Molina
or my ex-girlfriend... probably...
But the despair,
the sadness, the trappedness, yeah, maybe.
I mean, he did say that
he felt those things
when he wrote about the paintings.
So maybe that's it.
Maybe if I stand in front of
them and I feel the same thing
that the artist felt when he made it,
that means I've got it!
But hang on a minute,
we've already tried this.
Remember a minute ago,
we learned about how
the artist's intention
can be a tricky concept
because intentions change
over time and the artists themself
might be just another interpretation?
How do I know I'm not doing the same thing
with Rothko's feelings?
In "Pale Fire", John Shade
obviously felt a lot of things,
but how do we know whether or not Charles
picked up on the right ones?
In my play, there are
like nine characters
some of whom feel things that
I've never felt in real life.
So what is the audience supposed to feel?
I am Pablo Picasso's paintings.
How do you feel about me?
[Hidden voice]
Here's an idea!
Who gives a sh*t?
[Music like "Whooaaa we're changing it up again!"]
I am "Salvator Mundi," by
Leonardo "The Big Dog" da Vinci.
In 2017, I was bought
by Saudi Arabian ruler
Mohammed bin Salman for $450,312,500,
which makes me, oh my gosh!
I guess that makes me the
most valuable painting in the world!
in the world!
or how people feel, not the
art world, that's for sure.
Salvator Mundi is a portrait of Jesus,
a man who famously did
not have a high opinion
of rich people.
[USSR National Anthem plays]
But that didn't matter because art
is what economists call an asset
or in poor people language,
it's a way to avoid paying taxes.
Let me give you some advice, okay.
This is now Salvator's
business influencer tips,
buy cheap paintings.
And when I say cheap,
I mean like rich people cheap
like $25,000, that's nothing.
Take those cheap
paintings to an appraiser,
one that you trust and say, "Hey Jimmy,
how much would you say
this painting is worth?"
And Jimmy goes, "Oh, I don't
know, maybe a million dollars."
And then what you do is
donate that work of art
to a charitable foundation,
preferably one that you control.
Oh, but Salvi, I hear you
say, why am I giving it away?
Why am I not selling it?
Well, because as far as the
tax collectors are concerned,
you just donated a million
dollars to charity my friend,
you're practically a saint!
So use it for clout! And more importantly, it's a tax writeoff!
Or try it this way around.
Let's say you already own a painting.
And it's very valuable -
like me! But not me.
Obviously, you couldn't afford me. I'm Jesus Christ Superstar!
Take that valuable painting to your appraiser and say,
"Hey Jimmy, how much would
you say this one is worth?"
And Jimmy says, "Oh, I don't know. Not much I reckon."
Then what you do is you die.
The method is up to you there.
But when you go, donate
that valuable painting
to your spoiled rich kids,
to Ferdinand and Jemima and Armancio,
they then sell it.
And oh, wouldn't, you know it,
it's actually worth loads of money now!
But by that point they've
already avoided inheritance tax.
Boom.
[cha-ching]
You can look down proudly from heaven,
where rich people definitely go.
The art market is pretty unregulated,
pretty opaque and very concentrated.
And if you have the
millions it takes to buy in,
there are millions of ways
you can stack the deck.
Whilst the plebs are
standing in front of the work
trying to figure out what it means,
you already know what it means.
It means you never have to work again!
Huge vibe.
- Except, well, it's hard
to be completely cynical.
Even in the ritziest of ritzy art circles,
people do still talk about the meaning.
In the early noughties, a
new art movement developed,
that came to be known as Zombie Formalism.
Pretty quickly, people started to suspect
that zombie formalism was just
trying to make a quick buck.
A lot of the paintings themselves
were pretty visually neutral
so you could hang them in a
CEO's office or a fancy lobby
and they'd take up space
without pulling too much focus.
Some of them pushed boundaries,
but in ways that didn't always
seem significant like, oh,
it's the first painting ever to be done
with a fire extinguisher.
Great.
And a lot of them got flipped:
bought cheap first time round,
sold very expensive on
the secondary market.
These examples are the
"Seven Rain Paintings"
by Lucien Smith,
one of the most prominent
zombie formalists,
and they made him very rich.
When they were exhibited in LA,
they were accompanied by this description.
"Smith's work acts as a tangible moment,
a Chronicle of exploration as
he negotiates with existence,
he reminds us that an artist's trajectory is a
[nonsense babbling]"
What?
I don't even remember what that said.
Those words just slid off my brain.
That that was pure bullsh*t.
And yeah, a lot of philosophers
and art critics actually
said that at the time
or words to that effect.
Interestingly, Lucien Smith himself
has since come forward
and kindof admitted it!
"The model that was set
for me when I was younger,
it wasn't a healthy model.
It was about sucking up to
collectors and trying to sell
for the highest prices.
That stuff isn't real, that's not art."
According to his website,
Smith is now living in
New York, making NFTs
for a company called Lobus, which...
if somebody had accused
me of making worthless art
just so that it could be sold to fools
to make a lot of money,
I probably wouldn't get into crypto, man.
But even at its most cynical,
people still had to act
like the art had meaning.
Part of the process of building
hype around a new artist
is convincing people that their work
has something interesting to say.
And zombie formalism didn't last in part
because audiences and
critics saw through it.
Other trends took its place,
including a trend for what
you might call woke art
or art with social and political meaning.
Yes, it's a financial asset,
but people still want to stand
in front of a painting
and feel like they get it.
And I still do, with Rothko.
[chill synth music like "Hmmm, thoughtful."
It's tricky because there is
kindof a cultural pressure
with art, especially modern
art, to act like you get it.
And I know that there are some people
who respond to that pressure
by just denying that modern
art can have meaning.
They're like, "Oh, nobody really gets it.
Nobody really likes it,
they just pretend to!"
and that's always seemed
kindof cynical to me.
But at the same time, I
do feel that pressure.
Like I feel like I should have
opinions about Mark Rothko.
I should be that kind of cultured person.
But I guess if that's
how I'm approaching it,
then I'm not really engaging with the art.
I'm just worried about the kind of person
that I feel I should be.
Like, "Oh, what if I get invited to a party
and I say the wrong
thing about Mark Rothko
and I make a fool of myself?"
But that's a silly way to approach it.
Because even if I got everything
there was to get about Rothko,
there's thousands of other artists here
that would confront me
with that same anxiety.
If you come to art looking for a stick
to beat yourself with, then
you're probably gonna find it.
So maybe we should ask
a different question,
which is, what is the
point of trying to get it?
When I was a child, we studied "Macbeth"
in English class.
If you don't know it,
it's about a guy who murders
the king and steals the throne.
And there's a running theme
in the play about clothing.
People say that Macbeth
is wearing somebody else's clothes
as a metaphor for him stealing the crown.
They say that his new
title doesn't fit him.
"It hangs loose about him like a giant's robe
upon a dwarfish thief."
Macbeth is all about the drip.
and I, being a little wise ass,
put up my hand and said,
"Miss, did Shakespeare
really intend to put that in there?"
And there's two ways of
asking that question.
The first is, did the actual man,
William Shakespeare,
actually sit down in 1606
and have the thought,
"I am going to use a clothing
metaphor in my new play.
And then I'm gonna send a bunch
of flirty sonnets to someone
and make them wonder whether I'm bisexual."
[Saint Motel's "Just My Type" plays]
There's no way we can know
whether he thought that
without a time machine and a mind reader.
But the second way of
asking the question is,
do we get more out of the play
if we assume that the
clothing metaphor is intended,
do we enjoy it more?
Does it prompt us to some
interesting reflections
if we assume that we
are meant to notice it?
if we just go, nah,
that's just a coincidence.
Don't worry about it.
Then are we missing out?
The philosopher Alan Goldman
says that the point of interpreting art
is to maximise its artistic value.
Now what exactly is artistic value?
Well, maybe that's another
story for another time,
but his point is that getting
it is not a competition.
It's not about being right.
But then how do we know that Charles
is wrong about "Pale Fire"?
Because if he's right
then the poem isn't good.
John Shade leaves behind
this amazing work.
He writes about being an old
man at the end of his life
and what it was like to lose his daughter
and it's really, really moving.
If we assume, as Charles does, that, oh,
that stuff doesn't matter,
it's really all about him,
well then it's kind of a waste.
That's what makes Charles
a tragic character.
He's so lost in his own
mess that he can't see
the true value of what John has made.
As for me and Rothko, I
can try to put together
all the different ideas
that we've looked at today.
I can bear in mind what Susan Sontag said
about not intellectualising
things too much.
I can remember that the process
by which art gets exhibited
is often a financial thing
rather than an arbiter
of its meaning, so I don't
have to feel pressured by that.
And I can also try to think
about what Rothko himself
might have intended or felt,
not so I can reconstruct his brain,
but so I can see whether I
can also feel those things.
I'm looking for new experiences
when I go to his art,
I'm trying to grow and develop
as a person, rather than trying to get it.
As I've been writing my play,
I've had to deal with a
lot of these questions
and be in the room with actors
as they try to interpret the characters
that I have written.
By the time you're watching this,
rehearsals will already have started.
I know that a lot of
you already have tickets
and I cannot wait to share
"The Prince" with you.
I am so, so excited.
It is a dream come true
to be able to make art.
And I just wanted to say thank
you to all of you basically,
because without Philosophy Tube
I'd never have been able to do this.
And I also wanted to make sure
that even if you can't come
to London and see it live,
you can still experience it.
So there's a streaming
service called Nebula
where you'll be able to watch
a professional recording of the play.
Unlike YouTube, Nebula doesn't have ads
or algorithms or demonetization,
it's owned by the creators
who work on it, like me.
So it's a place where we
can put the experimental,
unusual stuff
that wouldn't work here
on YouTube, like my play.
And also like the behind
the scenes documentary
that the Philosophy Tube
crew made last year
about how this show comes together.
Fans of Philosophy Tube can
get a special deal on Nebula.
If you sign up to Curiosity
Stream using my special link,
curiositystream.com/philosophytube,
you get Nebula as well.
So for $15 a year, not
a month, $15 a year,
you get everything on Nebula
and everything on Curiosity Stream,
including this little
documentary about what happened
to Picasso's estate after he died.
It's a fascinating little insight
into the finances of the art world.
Considering that you can get both Nebula
and Curiosity Stream
for a year for like less
than what Netflix costs a month,
I think that's a pretty sweet deal
and you'll also be helping
me bring my dream to life
on a professional London stage.
So go to
curiositystream.com/philosophytube
and sign up for the bundle today.
And I will see you very,
very soon at the theatre!
["Blood" by Anima plays]
[REALLY happy with this episode! So pleased!]
[I feel like the pacing really works for this one with four parts, which is cool cause the 4th one was invented on the day!]
[The original plan was to go back to the Picasso look for the final section but Brian, the Philosophy Tube stylist, brought all these extra clothes to the set]
[And I was like Oh awesome let's use them then! Worked really well that the last section was about clothing]
[Anyway, rehearsals for The Prince have started and oh my gosh, I love this cast so much!]
[If you haven't already got tickets then I really would recommend moving fast, they're selling quickly!]
[Over half the performances are sold out already, which is incredible considering we've been in rehearsals for like a week]
[I wish I could tell you more about it cause it is just so awesome but you'll have to wait and see!]
[And if you can't get tickets then signing up to Nebula really will help, they'll see that and it means other streaming services might be more inclined to let me make stuff for them in future!]
[Everyone involved is just so nice as well? And so talented!]
[Also I sent the latest version to the publisher yesterday, it's going to be actually published as a book!]
[Not bad not bad! Published playwright!]
[I seem to have a lot of friends who are writers? Not just Paris but I have a few friends who are novelists, successful ones too!]
[Gosh I'm so lucky to have all these talented clever people in my life!]
[Did you like the bits where I geeked out about theatre too lol?]
HUGE VIBE